[#3558] Docs for Contributing and Defining Components (#3574)
airyhq/airy: docs/docs/guides/contributing-components.md

Airy's functions are provided by components ready for _plug and play_. With every [installation of Airy](../getting-started/installation/introduction.md) we bundle a few default components to get started:

1. airy-controller
2. api-admin
3. api-communication
4. api-websocket
5. frontend-inbox
6. frontend-control-center

Airy's real value comes from the additional components you install through our catalog in the Control Center UI of your Airy Instance.
In the following, we will explain how to create, update and store components.

## Components

import ComponentDefinition from '../getting-started/componentDefinition.mdx'

<ComponentDefinition/>

The Helm package and information on each component (except core components) are stored in an external repository managed by Airy called [airy-components](https://github.com/airyhq/airy-/airy-components). This repository is made up of directories where each directory contains a component's Helm package and information.

## The Component File Structure

Below is a model of the file structure of a single component inside the [`airy-components`](https://github.com/airyhq/airy-components) repository.

```
airy-components/
└── [COMPONENT_NAME]/

>     ├── information.yaml

Reviewer: I think it was `description.yaml` in the previous text?

Author: Yes! Good catch. Will fix

---
title: Contributing Components
sidebar_label: Contributing Components
---

:::warning

This functionality is under development. With these docs, we aim to elicit feedback from our community (you!) and focus our development efforts. Currently, we do not offer support for 3rd party components, but we are working toward supporting this.

:::

`Airy` is fundamentally a collection of components. When you [install `Airy`](../getting-started/installation/introduction.md), you get a few components out-of-the-box which form the infrastructure to install other components and begin using the platform.

These core components are:

1. airy-controller
2. api-admin
3. api-communication
4. api-websocket
5. frontend-inbox
6. frontend-control-center

> Airy's real value comes from the additional components you install through our marketplace in the Control Center UI of your Airy Instance. This documentation is on the processes we follow to create, update and store our components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Airy's real value comes from the additional components you install through our catalog in the Control Center UI of your Airy Instance. 
In the following, we will explain how to create, update and store components.
```

## Components

import ComponentDefinition from '../getting-started/componentDefinition.mdx'

<ComponentDefinition/>

> The Helm package and information on each components (except core components) are stored in an external repository managed by Airy called [airy-components](https://github.com/airyhq/airy-/airy-components). This repository is made up directories where each one contains the component's Helm package and information on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Helm package and information on each component (except core components) are stored in an external repository managed by Airy called [airy-components](https://github.com/airyhq/airy-/airy-components). This repository is made up of directories where each one contains the component's Helm package and information on it.
```

## The Component File Structure

> Below is a model of the file stucture of a single component inside the [`airy-components`](https://github.com/airyhq/airy-/airy-components) repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a model of the file structure of a single component inside the [`airy-components`](https://github.com/airyhq/airy-components) repository.
```

---
title: Contributing Components
sidebar_label: Contributing Components
---

:::warning

This functionality is under development. With these docs, we aim to elicit feedback from our community (you!) and focus our development efforts. Currently, we do not offer support for 3rd party components, but we are working toward supporting this.

:::

> `Airy Core` is fundamentally a collection of components. When you [install `Airy Core`](../getting-started/installation/introduction.md), you install a set of _core_ components which create the minimum infrastructure to install other components and begin using the platform.

Reviewer 2: `Airy Core` is not really how we market the open source. Let's just call it `Airy` and mention that it shipds with a few components out-of-the-box.

Author: Sounds good. Although there are a ton of references to Airy Core in the docs, so we might need a larger fix. For now I will refer to it as Airy.

These core components are:

1. airy-controller
2. api-admin
3. api-communication
4. api-websocket
5. frontend-inbox
6. frontend-control-center

Airy's real value comes from the additional components you install through our marketplace in the Control Center UI of your Airy Instance. This documentation is on the processes we follow to create, update and store our components.

## Components

Airy is designed to support a plug-and-play architecture. Components are installed and run as pods in your cluster. Components can provide four kinds of functionality:

1. Connector - i.e Rasa, DialogFlow

> 2. Source - i.e., Facebook, WhatsApp, SMS

Reviewer 2: We decided to not differentiate between `sources` and `connectors` on a component level. 

In the [glossary docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MjLF1eylIgMIhxzP7kJHHroRQXeKQyO4-824MR0pplE/edit) I suggested the following definition for a connector which nicely brackets both use cases:
>  A connector is a type of component that authenticates with one or more third-party services in order to exchange data

This document should link to the glossary definitions that aren't here yet, unfortunately. @AitorAlgorta perhaps we can already add definitions for `component` and `connector` in this PR?

3. API - i.e
4. User Interface - i.e

As a technical artifact, each component is a containerized application that is packaged and can be installed. We use Docker and Helm for this.

The Helm package and information on each components (except core components) are stored in an external repository managed by Airy called [airy-components](https://github.com/airyhq/airy-/airy-components). This repository is made up directories where each one contains the component's Helm package and information on it.

## The Component File Structure

> Below is a model of the file stucture of a single component inside the [`airy-components`](https://github.com/airyhq/airy-/airy-components) repository.

Reviewer 2: I created the repository that we can use to link to correctly: https://github.com/airyhq/airy-components

Author: Amazing!

```
/airy-components
	/[COMPONENT_NAME]

> 		information.yaml

Reviewer 2: `description.yaml` seems a bit more apt. What do you think? 🤔 

Also sharing this neat little app for generating these file graphs: https://tree.nathanfriend.io/

Author: Agreed.
